# ahes-django
A project related to my masters thesis at TU Darmstadt. The project aims to evaluate the students exam script (text based) automatically. The project consists of two modules Configq and Grader.

The first module "Configq" is used to configure the exam and questions. Examiner needs to upload all the pages of the exam script first. Then s/he will be able to configure each question by providing information like alloted marks, actual answer, threshlold for considering the student answer correct etc. At this stage examiner also needs to interactively select the designated area where the students will write their answer. This is typically a rectengle under each question on the exam script where students will write their answer. The module also provides other usual features like edit, update of the config as required. 

Second Module "grader" read the students answer from the uploaded student's answer script and evaluate them against the actual answer provided by the examiner. It also allow examiner to analyze the system evluation and interrupt by the examiner at any stage. It provides a very friendly interface to analyze the evaluation which contain only required information and part of the image where actually student written the answer. Examiner can adjust the threshold and other parameter for efficient evaluation. In case system failed to evaluate some answer for various reason for example answer is not text(diagram, flowchart), the grader provides option to evaluate manually. Finally the grader can pulish the student grades. 

The system use OpenCV-python 3.4.4 and PyTesseract 0.2.5 for image processing and reading the text from the uploaded image. NLTK 3.4 is used to evaluate the students answer against the actual answer. The system was developed in Django 2.1.1 with python 3.6. The system provides additional automatic reading of matriculation number from the exam script incase the image naming convention is not followed but accuracy is much less in that case. Tensorflow 1.12 is used to train the Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) which recognize the hand written matriculation number. 

Finally, the system is still in evaluation process and read only the printed text for student answer. It will be integrated with a third party API to read hand written student answer for real life use. 
